# Bandit 11 to 20 solutions

## Level 10 -> 11

- It is specified that the password in stored in data.txt file with base64 encoding.
- Use the command `cat data.txt | base64 -d`
- `base64 -d` command decodes the base64 encoded file.
- Use the password to login to next level.


## Level 11 -> 12

- It is specified that the password is stored in data.txt with rot13 encoding i.e. every character is rotated to 13 steps.
- Use the command `cat data.txt | tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'`
- Here this command decodes the rot13 encodings.
- Use the password to login to next level.

## Level 12 -> 13

- Password is stored in data.txt, which is a hexdump of a file that has been repeatedly compressed.
- A hexdump has three main columns :
	- The first part represents the address.
	- The middle part has the data in hex.
	- The last shows the actual data as strings.
- For command-line, `xxd` can be used.
- We can create hexdumps using the command `xxd <input_file> <output_file>`.
- Using -r flag reverts back the hexdump.
- `gzip` is the command used to compress or decompress (-d) files. The file extension is .gz
- An archive file is the file that contains one or multiple files and their metadata.
- `tar` command creates archive files. It can also be using to extract those files.
- Solution has three steps :
	1. Navigate to the tmp directory and create a random name folder and copy the data.txt file from the source.
		- Its command is `cd /tmp | mktemp -d | cd /tmp/<filename> | cp ~/data.txt . | mv data.txt hexdump_data`
		
	2. Revert the hexdump of the file
		- Use the command `xxd -r hexdump_data compressed_data`
		
	3. Repeated Decompression
		- File compression can be detected using list of file signatures.
		- Our file looks like it is compressed in gzip.
		- Use the command `gzip -d <filename>.gz`. Change the file extension to .gz before decompressing using mv command.
		- Then decompress the file using bzip2, again with gzip.
		- We will get a .tar file, i.e. a archive file. Decompress it using `xxd -xf <filename` command.
		- Again decompress the file using tar twice,
		- Then finally decompress using xxd, bzip2 and then gzip.
- Use the password to login to next level.


## Level 13 -> Level 14

- It is specified that the password for next level is stored in /etc/bandit_pass/bandit14 and can only be read by bandit14, so we don't have to find the password but the private SSH key to the next level.
- An alternative to loging in to the SSH network is using the public-private key cryptogtaphy.
- Public key is placed on computers that are allowed access to the user that owns the private key.
- Only the user knows the private key, use the -i flag to login using private key.
- `scp` command uses ssh to transfer data. The syntax is `scp -p <port> <user>@<IP>:<remotefilepath><localfilename>`.
- An alternative to this is starting a simple web server with python.
- Check the path of the sshkey.private file in the bandit13 and logout of the machine.
- In your native machine, use the command `scp -P 2220 bandit13@bandit.labs.overthewire.org:sshkey.private .` to transfer the file to the native host.
- Change the permissions of the sshkey.private using the command `chmod 700 sshkey.private` to aviod permission denied warnings.
- Use the command `ssh -i sshkey.private bandit14@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220` to connect to the next level using the ssh private key.

## Level 14 -> Level 15

- It is specified that the password can be retrived by sending the password of bandit14 to localhost 30000.
- We can do it using the command nc or netcat, the nc command allows us to read and write data over a network connection.
- To connect to the network the syntax is `nc <hostname> <port>`.
- First, retrieve the bandit14 password from the folder `/etc/bandit_pass/bandit14`.
- Now use the command `nc localhost 30000` to start the localhost server and paste the password to get the password to the next level.


## Level 15 -> Level 16

- It is specified that the the password to the last level is to be submitted to the localhost 30001 using ssl.
- For this purpose we can use openssl, OpenSSL is a library for secure network connections. It implements the transport layer security(TLS) and Secure Socket Layer(SSL) protocols.
- `openssl s_client` is the simple implementation of a simple client that connects to a server using SSL/TLS.
- Connect to the server at port 30001 using the command `openssl s_client -connect localhost:30001` and submit the password to the previous level.


## Level 16 -> Level 17

- It is specified that password can be retrieved by submitting the password of previous level to a server that is between port 31000 and 32000.
- First we have to find out the ports which are listening in this range and then find the ports that are using ssl, which we need.
- For this purpose, we will be using nmap.
- Use the command `nmap -sV localhost -p 31000-32000`, this command gives that 5 ports are listening in this specified range,and out of them 31790 is the one using ssl only.
- So use the command `openssl s_client -connect localhost 31790` to connect to the port and then send the credentials.
- You will get the ssh key in return, save this ssh key and use it to login to next level as done in level 14.


## Level 17 -> Level 18

- It is specified that there are two files named passwords.new and passwords.old. The password is the only difference in the two files.
- To do this task, use the command `diff passwords.old passwords.new`.

## Level 18 -> Level 19

- Immediately after logging in to the bandit18, you are logged out with the message byebye!.
- It is because someone has modified .bashsrc file to logout when you login using ssh.
- So the solution is to execute the command using ssh instead of logging in to the machine.
- `.bashsrc` is a file that runs every time a terminal is loaded.
- So, use the command as `ssh -p 2220 bandit18@bandit.labs.overthewire.org <command>` to execute any command.
- A better alternative is to use `/bin/bash` as the command to spawn a bash shell in our host machine. It helps us because we don't have to enter passwords on every command we write.
- Read the readme file to get the password.


## Level 19 -> Level 20

- It is specified that you should use the setuid binary in the home directory, Execute it without arguments to find out how to use it.
- Password of the next level can be found at a `/etc/bandit_pass/` after you set the setuid binary.
- There is a file named bandit20-do, this file has the owner as bandit20 and group as bandit19, which means that bandit19 can execute the binary, but binary is executed as user bandit20.
- Executing a binary says it simply executes another command as another user.
- This means we can get the password of bandit20 from bandit20 machine using this binary.
- The command is `./bandit20-do cat /etc/bandit20-do/bandit20`. 
